# University_Course_Registration_System
Program to create a course schedule

## Class Descriptions
App.java - The main program that contains the main and executes all of the Admin and Student Menus. In addition, the app class contains the serialization methods and deserialization methods for the courseList and userList.

User.java - Each user has a first name, last name, username, and password. And getters and setters for those data fields. 

Admin.java - The admin class extends the user class because an admin is a user and thus, has an is-a relationship. The admin class also implements the AdminInterface Interface and therefore, must implement all of the methods in the interface. An admin has a first name, last name, username, and password like a user, but also has several admin methods. The admin can handle course management responsibilities. An admin can create a course, delete a course, edit a course’s name, ID, and instructor, display course information, and register a student for a course. The admin also has a separate Reports Menu that has a different set of functions. An admin can view all courses, view all full courses, write to a file the list of courses that are full, view the names of students registered in a specific course, view the list of courses of a given student, and sort the courses based on the current number of students registered. 

AdminInterface.java - The admin interface provides a frame of methods that will be implemented. In this case the Admin Class will implement the AdminInterface. Most of my admin methods take in the array of courses called courseList and make use of it in the admin class. 

Student.java - The student class extends the user class because a student is a user and thus, has an is-a relationship. The student class implements the StudentInterface interface and therefore, must implement all of the methods in the interface. A student has a first name, last name, username, and password like a user, but also has its own student methods. The student only has 1 student menu for course management. The student can view all courses, view all courses that are not full, register on a course, withdraw from a course, and view all courses that it is registered on. 

StudentInterface.java - The student interface provides a frame of methods that will be implemented by whatever class implements it. In this case, the Student class will implement the StudentInterface. Most of my student methods take in the array of courses called courseList and make use of it in the student class. 

Course.java - The course class has a course name, course ID, course max number of students, course current number of students, course list of students (in an array), course instructor, course section number, and course location. The course class also has different constructors to make the implementation of other methods throughout the program easier to use because not all the data fields are always used. The course method also has additional methods like addStudent and removeStudent that add and remove students from the course. 

MyUniversityCourses.csv - The given file that contains all of the courses including course names, course ID, max number of students, current number of students, list of names, course instructor, course section number, and course location. 

## Work Flow & How To Use
When the program first starts up, the program will check if there is a file called serialization, and then it will add the course information from MyUniversityCourses.csv by making the file if it is not present, otherwise, it will deserialize the courseList and userList into ser files. The user should login as an admin. The menu is labeled numerically and by inputting a number the corresponding action will result. After pressing 1, a login will appear asking for a username and password which should be username: Admin and password: Admin001. After successfully logging in a new menu will appear asking whether the admin wants to access the course management menu or the reports menu. Press the corresponding number. To make a student and access the student menu, the user must enter the course management menu and register a student. After accessing the course management menu there will be another menu displaying the course management actions an admin can perform. Many of the methods require that the user know information about the courses, so I recommend that you access the reports menu and select view all courses to serve as a easy way to input information. Choosing to exit on any of the menus will close the program and serialize the courseList and userList at its current state for further use.

## Concepts Used
1. Method Overloading - is when multiple methods have the same name, but different parameters. My program did not make use of method overloading except for the constructors which all had the same name in their respective classes, but also had different parameters depending on what it would be used for. Ex. My course class has a default Course constructor, and another constructor to accept multiple data field values. 
2. Method Overriding - is when a method has the same name and parameters as another method therefore causing it to take over or replace the old method. It is commonly used in a relationship between a superclass and a subclass because the subclass can have the same methods as the parent but with more detail. My program used overriding when implementing all of the methods from the student interface in the student class. It also used overriding when implementing the methods from the admin interface in the admin class. 
3. Abstract Class - An abstract class is a class that contains an abstract method, but can also have other data fields and methods. My program did not make use of an abstract class. 
4. Inheritance - is the ability to derive classes from other classes. The relationship between the two classes is like a parent child relationship. The child class will have access to everything the parent class has and more if it wants. My program uses inheritance when the Admin and Student inherit from the User class. The admin and student can both be labeled as users, but they can also be more specifically labeled as admin and student and have access to other methods than just what is in the user class
5. Polymorphism - is the concept of classes or objects having different functions even though they are labeled as the same thing. My program uses polymorphism when I specifically type cast a user as a student, so that I can gain more access to the specifics of the student class even though the object is still technically a user. 
6. Encapsulation - is hiding information and simplifying code. My program uses encapsulation by having getters and setters for my data fields in my classes.
7. ADT (Abstract Data Type) - is the basic form of a type or data structure that can further be detailed depending on its function. For example, my program uses ArrayLists throughout, but each arraylist is different depending on its type because it can be an arraylist of students, courses, or admins. 
